# Inventory-App

The purpose of the Inventory App is to let users store their inventory information in a database. This app was created using Android Studio and can be set up to be downloaded from the app store so any mobile device connected to the internet can download and use it. Users will be able to register for a user account, login, and recover their password. The app will allow the user to input their inventory information in the three categories consisting of the description, sku number, and quantity. Each category can be adjusted by the user and displayed in a scrollable list format. Editing from the list will throw a pop up screen instead of taking the user to another screen. There is also an option the user can opt into to be notified in the form of a SMS message if one of the items on their list reaches zero.

Features that I needed to include was the ability to notify the user if an inventory item dropped to zero. Using this feature will require permissions the user will need to approve. Screens needed to support user needs is a login screen and a UI for interacting with the inventory database. My designs kept the users in mind because I keep the UI simple and straight forward. I stayed away from too many screen transistions and utilized pop up windows for various tasks like editing an item from the list and passsword recovery. Less wait time on screen loading means more effieciency for the user. I approached coding my app by completing all of the design elements first. By completing all of the design elements first, I was able to identify all of the components needed to include in my code. I simply need to tie them all in and get the methods and intents to work correctly between all of the UI design elements. In the future, i will focus on getting the design elements out the way first to help give me direction in coding projects. To ensure that my code was functional, I used incremental testing. This process is extremely important and often reveals bugs that need to be corrected. Where I had to innovate to overcome a challenge was by creating the UI design with no prior planning other than looking at competitor apps. I know now in hindsight that a a well strutured plan from start to finish is key. I created a process flow after the UI development and it helped iron out many of the roadblocks I had encounter like creating a way for the user to sign out. You don't think of this until you are designing the app and realize you have included no way for the user to sign out of their account. I thought I did well in getting all the components to work and integrate well with one another. Creating a proper CRUD method helps with code reusability, especially in a database.
